- [Instructor] If you are not familiar with the concept
of paging and sorting, I'd like to give you a little demo.
In my browser, I have Google open
and I'm going to enter a search term, latency.
The response is immediate, the results are sorted
by relevance and when I scroll to the bottom
I see that there is at least 10 screens of results.
Each time I click Next
or one of the number of pages,
there is a brief pause, Why did that happen?
Didn't Google already fetch all the results
when I clicked Search?
Thankfully, no.
Google, like any smart web application,
employs paging and sorting where application fetch chunks
of data on demand.
Any query method can be enhanced to support paging,
just add a parameter of typed pageable,
which specifies which chunk to fetch
and return the type page.
In this example of course repository,
we overloaded the findByCredits method
with a pageable parameter.
The page request
which implements pageable requires some parameters
in the constructor.
The first parameter is the page number,
zero is the first by default.
The second parameter is the number of entities per page.
Next is the direction of the Sort.
Then an ordered list of properties to sort by.
Page holds a list of results,
the total number of results and the number of pages.
To add paging and or sorting
to a repository's findAll method,
we extended from PagingAndSortingRepository,
instead of CrudRepository.
Our Staff repository extends from paging
and sorting repository which overloads findAll
with two new decorations, one with just the sort parameter
and other with the pageable parameter.
So let's actually run these
and let's first look at CourseRepository.
Where here is our overloaded method passing in pageable
in returning a page.
And then our StaffRepository
which extends PagingAndSortingRepository.
Now let's run these paging and sorting query demos
in the query demo file.
So this is just a comparison, we're going
to say findByCredits
which is going to say return all 3-credit courses
which is all of the courses in the system.
So there is no paging at all.
This is the entire repository of courses.
I moved it up a little bit so you can see.
And now we're going to apply paging.
So we're going to say findByCredits.
The number of credits is three and we're going to say
for PageRequest we want the first page
and have only four elements per page
and sort ascending by credits and then
by the name of the course.
So it's a long way of saying,
find the first three credit courses sort
by credit then course names so anthropology,
C programming, chemistry in English are the results.
Next we're going to find all staff members
and sort them alphabetically by last name.
And there is our staff members, alphabetized
and now we're going to get a page of staff
where we want the first five and then sorted by last name.
So this is our page object, members and
from this member's object, we can not just get the list
of members, we can actually get some other metadata
about that.
We want the members total number of elements.
What's the total number of staff members?
And there is 11 of them
and the total number of five element pages,
so how many pages are there in the members.
It says there is three pages and now we want the first five
of them which are Black, Brown, Davis, green and Jones.